Awesome. Well, happy Thursday, everybody, and welcome to the Data Science Hangout. Hope
everyone's having a great week. It was so awesome to get to meet so many of you at the
Posit Conference in Chicago, and so happy to be back with everybody this week. Hope you had a
great time with Robert last week. Thanks, Robert, for covering for me. I was out of the office and
got to go to France last week. But for anybody I haven't had the chance to meet yet, I'm Rachel
Dempsey, and I'm the host of our Data Science Hangout here and lead customer marketing at Posit.
So this is our open space to chat about data science leadership, questions you're facing,
and really just getting to hear what's going on in the world of data across all different
industries. And so we're here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you're watching
this recording on YouTube later, you can also add it to your calendar if you ever want to join us
live. It will be in the details below. And James, I think that's where you first came across the
Hangouts is you were watching a lot of them on YouTube, too. Yeah, I've become a bit obsessed
with programming YouTube. So I watch quite a lot of programming tutorials, programming
conference talks online, and play YouTube through the television. So it's quite a constant stream
for me. Love it. Well, at the Hangout, we're all dedicated to making this a welcoming environment
for everybody. So we love hearing from everyone, no matter your years of experience, titles,
industry, or the languages that you work in, too. And so it's totally okay for you to just listen in.
Maybe you're out for a walk or on your lunch break or something. But you can also jump in
and ask questions or provide your own perspective on certain topics. So you can raise your hand here
on Zoom and I'll keep an eye out. You can put questions in the Zoom chat and just put a little
star next to it if it's something that you want me to read out loud. Otherwise, I'll just call on
you to introduce yourself and add some context. And then lastly, we also have a Slido link where
you can ask questions anonymously, too. And our team will share that in the chat in just a second
here. But with all that, I am so excited to be joined by my co-host today, James Laird-Smith,
data scientist at the Bank of England. And James, I'd love to kick things off by having you introduce
yourself and share a little bit about your role, a little bit about the work you do, and also
something you like to do outside of work. Yeah, sure. Thanks for having me. It's great to be on.
So yeah, like you introduced, my name is James. I am a data scientist at the Bank of England,
where I kind of work as like an internal data consultant. So as we'll get on to,
like the bank is quite big. And so I partner, the team of which I'm part, we partner with
different business areas in order to try and improve their data science workflows and to
bring kind of a best practice to the work that they do. I am also sort of separately,
I have the kind of specific title of our business owner, which is something which I'm not sure
exists in many places. I hadn't heard about it before I joined the bank. But as part of that,
I am kind of the business's representative of the tool, which means I attend some meetings
where some things about R are decided upon and various, there's also a component of testing and
people can ask more about that if they like. But yeah, so I play quite a key role in at very least
the R language, but probably data science more broadly at the Bank of England. I should also
maybe say, because this is a frequent source of misunderstanding, the Bank of England is
the UK central bank. So some people think it's a retail bank, but it's not. So for those joining
from the United States, it's much more akin to the Federal Reserve. People who are from elsewhere
know it as the Bank of Australia or the Bank of Japan or the European Central Bank. So
we're not a retail bank, we're the central bank for the United Kingdom.
Yeah, thank you for that clarification too. And I'll echo what Lisa said in the chat that
it's awesome that you get to represent the whole organization too.
And okay, what about something you like to do outside of work too?
Yes, I forgot. Very good. Very good. So I think for people, what people sometimes
will notice is about my accent, which is not something I do outside of work. The accent
is the same at work and outside of work. But I happen to be a South African, so I only came to
the UK about just under six years ago now. And so I have perhaps a slightly different perspective
as somebody who learned programming overseas in Africa. And that gives me a slightly different
perspective to some people. I think the thing that people most know me for, although I don't
do it that much anymore, is I used to be very involved in competitive debating. So at high
school and university for a long time, I debated competitively. Debating is something which is
mainly based out of schools and universities. And so I don't do it that much anymore,
but that's something I dedicated quite a lot of free time to. Not a lot of data science overlap
with competitive debating, but if you ask me about it, I'll tell you about what they have in common.
It's like we're going to have to learn a little bit about that. We might just have to start there.
What are a few of the things that they have in common or what lessons have you
learned from your experience debating? The answer is not much. So like I said before,
it's a bit of a stretch to say that there's anything really that much in common.
If I add a stretch, I would say that even in both roles, a lot of debating is what we call
impromptu. So we only get a short time to prepare, but that makes us quite good at
brainstorming. So sometimes when I do some statistical modeling, some of the activity is to
try and imagine what the forces that are in play in your model are, so what's really happening
in the real world. And debating has some of that. So when you scope out an argument,
very often you have to get hypothetical societies or hypothetical people in your mind to try and
understand what's going on. So at a stretch, I think that's probably the similarity.
Of course, on a skills level, it's very useful to be able to speak in front of people and to
have practice speaking in front of people because that has obviously widespread use,
not just in data science, but in lots of professional capacities.
Thank you. Something I forgot to say up front, but I wanted to add that in case anybody's joining
for the first time, there's always like a party happening in the chat as well and people sharing
links and resources with each other. So like perfectly okay and awesome to do that too. So
I just like to remind people of that. So if you have resources you want to share, feel free to
use the chat there for that too. But James, when we were talking a few weeks ago now,
you had mentioned to me that the bank has 4,000 employees, and I think like close to 1,000 of
them use R. And I was just curious to learn a little bit more of that because that just seems
like a huge number of users for the size of the org too. Yeah. So I think the thing to understand
is I always think of the Bank of England as just a giant data factory. So like we have a huge amount
of data going in and a broad set of data going in. And of course we produce outputs which get
published and come out in various other capacities. So the weird thing is not so much that we have
1,000 R users, the thing is we should have more actually. So it's just that data is just so
central to basically every facet of what the bank does that actually a lot of our aim is to
try and get more people into R and the data science languages. I have like a brief breakdown
which I kind of prepared for this which I think is maybe instructive on this point. So the bank
is hugely varied in the kind of things that it does. So there's like at least one sort of
division of the bank which is a bit like an investment bank or a hedge fund or a mutual fund.
And their thing is a bit like time series and the usual things you would think of like
quantitative finance and stuff like that. But then there's another area of the bank which is like
an academic department who's primarily involved in publishing papers and research. And
they will publish in LaTeX and use Quota and things like that. There's also a huge amount
of the bank which is like just operational. So we have operational data. For example,
we collect data on like banknotes. So just the physical currency which that's an operational
division of the bank but also collects data and we use that data to make decisions.
So my experience is actually that and there's also areas of the bank which are just like
basically like a tech startup. So that's just not on toward something you might see at like
Google or Facebook or something like that. So all of those things just mean that data is
ever present in our activities and the work that we do. So it's not like we have too many. We have
too few users despite the fact that we have sort of a thousand or something like that.
The other thing maybe to note for people who might not know is we actually have
good telemetry on this. So we sort of keep track of the number of users of all our different tools.
And so it's not just like we count downloads or something like that. We have fairly good
knowledge of exactly who uses what tools and what they use them for. So it's not an exact science.
So it's about a thousand users over the course of the year have used our studio.
Thank you for that context. I see a few questions starting to
jump in here in the chat. And Alan, I see you had asked a question a bit ago. Do you
want to jump in here first? And sorry if my internet just cut out for a second. I think
is it okay? Does it sound okay now? Yeah. Okay. But Alan, I'll start reading it and if you want
to jump in after. The question was, you're the business champ for R. Is there an IT side owner
as well? And how do you work together? Yes, absolutely. So the idea is that we have a
technology owner, which is much like IT and we have a business owner and yes, we do absolutely
work together. So the technology owner, unsurprisingly, is often somebody from
sort of the sysadmin type of role. So people are responsible for everybody's tech infrastructure.
And the business owner is designed to be separate from that. So it's designed to be much,
it's much more common that this person would be a data scientist. It's much more common that this
person would be working day to day. So it's a part of my role, but it's not my entire role.
But yeah, we absolutely work together and the technology owner and I sort of shoot each other
questions every day. There are areas of overlap, but we kind of need to do different things.
The other thing, which the business owner is also meant to be a kind of like champion. So if there's
something wrong with the tool, we have some administrators because the bank is very big.
We have a team of administrators as my job to raise issues when they come about and to be a
sounding board for the users in general. So at least that's how I interpret it.
That's I think the common practice. So sometimes have to walk a bit of a tightrope.
So balancing different users' interests. Thank you. Oh, Alan, we can hear you now.
Laura, I see you had a question somewhat related as well. Do you want to jump in here?
Yeah. So it's tagging on to that and it's related to, you know, when there's two owners of one
thing, obviously there's never just, like you said, there's a lot of overlap. And it sounds
like you and your IT owner have a good partnership and you work really well together. But have you
had to weigh the, you know, there's ownership and then there's territorialism. And in every
organization I've ever worked at, there are some people who have just moved into the territorialism
niche and not feel like, oh, that's an IT job. That's not my job kind of situation. Oh, that's
a data side. How do you, besides it sounds like you have a great relationship with your IT person.
I have an awesome relationship with my IT person. But how do you balance that and ensure that you're
meeting business needs while not siloing? Yeah. Yeah. So it's a great question. Mercifully,
I have been saved from this particular quandary the same way I think you have.
A lot of our, if there are tensions, they tend to come in prioritizing. So where I have to
judge not like whether something is important, because oftentimes when anybody comes to me with
something, it's very important for them. So the trade-offs that I have to make and pay attention
to are what the majority of users are likely to find troublesome. And that's often a judgment call.
And thankfully, I have never needed to escalate that. The bank is very collegial in that respect.
But if so, then there is a kind of a chain of command. So there is my boss and my boss's boss
who are the official people in charge. So we do have a chain of command, as it were,
where if a tough decision does need to be made, then there is somebody who is in charge of that.
On that same note, the metric that I kind of, a lot of it is individual. The metric I try and
use to assess these things. It's important to be mindful of people who don't complain.
So people who have like tried to use a tool, but have given up because it's too difficult.
And I have to always be aware that I don't hear from those people because they've given up. And
there's kind of a selection bias there, which is, you know, you don't hear from the people who've
given up. And so one of the things which I'm working on right now and will continue to try
and work on is just getting package installs correct. So we have a set of our own internal
packages. And usually the process is quite streamlined. But of course, if there is a
problem, then that's a very big stumbling block, especially for a new user, but can be for
an existing user. So things like that, I tend to prioritize quite highly. And I will give,
I will sort of up weight in terms of their importance. But yeah, it's not the easiest
thing to do. And then it requires judgment and experience.
I see. Mike and Bill, you have two kind of similar questions you're asking around
cross-government agency groups. Bill, do you want to jump in here? Do you want me to read it?
The question was, as part of a government agency, is there a cross-governmental agency group,
perhaps loosely affiliated with a focus on R or other languages and perhaps emerging technologies?
We are trying. So there are definitely people who use R across the government sector. We also have
an overlap of employees. So some employees leave the government sector or at least some
part of the government sector come to the bank and vice versa. And so we have pretty good
relationships there, not quite to where it could be. And there's definitely more sharing that could
be done and that could also extend to data sharing. And there are some agreements for
data sharing that exist, but yeah, definitely room to grow on that one.
Mike, did you have any follow-up question you want to add there? I know
your question was similar too. Well, it was more that within pharma industry, we're engaging quite
a lot in discussions with the regulatory agencies, you know, FDA being a good example, to define
what they want to see from us when we interact with them. I've been talking to one or two people
from different parts of finance who then said, well, it'd be fantastic if there was a similar
discussion between various bodies and financial regulators to say, you know, are we giving you
what you want? Can we modernize this? You know, and have that kind of two-way discussion.
Yes. So there's a couple of avenues on this and there are many lines of
communication and a lot of them truthfully do not cross my path because like I said,
the bank being quite broad, there'll be different areas of, for example, in insurance will be
different to banking. The one thing we are trying to do quite hard is modernize our
submissions. So what happens, it's probably similar in pharma, you will know, but in the
financial services and then finance industry in general, is a lot of the time there need to be
submissions made to the bank on various aspects of regulation. And we put a lot of effort and are
still putting a lot of effort on into trying to make that as seamless and streamlined as possible.
And that's part of lots of ongoing work. Okay. Travis, on your question, I might need a
explanation on the penny scheme from office space from you. This is not a serious question.
I will say office space is a great film and I enjoyed it. I enjoyed it immensely.
I mean, should we, yeah. So the premise for those that haven't seen it is
that it's a group of software engineers and they figure out a way to on top of every transaction
of which there are millions per day, take off a fraction of a penny or something like that. And
they become very rich on the scheme. And here in the U.S. a lot of us have to start paying back
our student loans this month. So we're all looking for our own penny scheme. So if they
So if there's a way to use R to help with that, well, let's go.
I will say something. I think for those who haven't watched office space, great, great,
great film. I think it's amazing how the satirical element of what it is like to work in an office
hasn't really changed since that film was made. So it's very good, somewhat horrifying watching.
It is. It is good.
Well, thank you. Thank you for that explanation, Travis.
Marlene, I see you had a question in the chat, too. You want to jump in?
Oh, sure. Hello, everyone. And Travis says in the side, I don't know why, but my mind went to the
gag. I can't remember what movie or phone it is, but the rotary phone where they keep putting dimes
in there and then like, you know, so incrementally somebody doesn't notice the weight and all of a
sudden they take all the dimes out and he just smacks himself with the phone. That's where my
head went. Sorry. Welcome to my brain. Hi, James. Thanks for joining us. My question,
which is kind of general, but I'm always fascinated when I ask folks in the data science
space this question, what is a challenge that maybe you've faced and you may still be encountering it,
may not have overcome it, but you didn't see it coming. You know, I think we all kind of have
these like, OK, we're ready to kind of girt our loins for the inevitable battles between
departments and governance issues. Sometimes it's political. Sometimes it's just technical
hurdles. But what was something maybe that kind of blindsided you in the position that you're in?
Yeah. Yeah, totally. I think this is this definitely got to me. So I spoke before about
like just how big the bank is and how much data work goes on. And this had an effect which I
wasn't quite prepared for, but my colleagues were very good in preparing me for. It was because
part of this data consulting work that we do, we have a kind of a set of practices that we adopt,
which is that we have to upskill the business area to maintain their own tooling. So if they
develop a process, they have to be responsible for maintaining it. And I came from a different
job where it was like the data scientists would build and maintain the tools. And I'm a maintainer
at heart. I maintain a bunch of our internal R packages. But my boss had to have a serious
word with me as he does with like everybody who says, no, no, no, we can't maintain it.
And that's because if we ever did, we would so quickly become overwhelmed with that maintenance
burden that we wouldn't be able to do anything else. We wouldn't be able to do anything new.
And this is very symptomatic of just having a very big organization. And I was totally not
prepared for this. And so, but I wholeheartedly now am on board with that. And I think that just
speaks to, you've got to understand your organization, your organization's needs,
and it might not be the same. So yeah, to perform well in different organizations often means some
things, even sometimes if that means stepping back and saying, actually, I need to coach somebody
through this. I can't just do it myself. And so that was a big one for me.
Yeah. Thank you so much for that. There's so much packing that, by the way, from a project
management perspective and scope creep, right? Because we, I don't know about you guys, but I
can tell you from the handful of people I have interacted with on this call, you guys are a
bunch of fixers, right? So we don't like to leave things unhandled or kind of straggling. So we want
to fix things. And I think maintenance is a huge part of that. And so kind of drawing clear cut
boundaries is something huge for a lot of us. So anyway, thanks for sharing. Appreciate your time.
My pleasure. Tyler, I see you had a
question in the chat a bit earlier. Do you want to jump in here next?
Yeah, no. Thank you, James. I love the insights, really helpful, especially from the community
here. Nice to meet you all. I think one of the things that struck me most with your thousand
users, I wouldn't say I'm jealous, but as we've rolled out Posit and some of the platforms,
we're ever in this struggle to get new users to adopt successfully and happily to a new platform.
We love the things we love about Posit. It's a little bit more language agnostic. It's a little
bit more open in that sense and a little bit more flexible to the communities that we're trying to
serve in analytics and data science, right? But I'm just curious, how do you guys handle that
conversion? Do you mandate training? How do you support those new users? We're forever trying to
make the Emacs peoples happy. How do we really in this space develop the kind of onboarding
that can lead to what you have demonstrated is a very successful kind of adoption that's a little
less top-down and like, here's a new platform, everybody on. We're just taking all the old stuff
away, but more where you can get people to come and really excel and grow.
Yeah, and the answer is that there are no easy answers. So, a lot of the things that you've
touched on, we do have dedicated training and dedicated trainers and we have a schedule and
we have excellent people in charge of training who forward that on to us.
Documentation, also important together with that, the kind of offline asynchronous
resource that people can consult. I will also say about documentation in general,
writing is a delicate art. So, I think one of the things that makes a difference to me is
actually being given time to write something properly and so to give the user a beginning
to end experience that is reproducible for them, that is underrated in my experience. So,
whenever I do sometimes read documentation, sometimes even my own, which is not well written
and it wasn't because the person writing it is bad, it's just because writing is hard and writing
in a way that is clear and concise to the broadest range of people is an underrated skill that we
are absolutely should dedicate time to. The third pillar of that is just solving
common problems as much as possible. So, the holy grail of package rollouts or
rollouts as platform rollouts rather is just the one liner, just can I solve this in one line?
Is this like a one line thing that I can put in and I can get the experience? And we know that,
everybody on this call will know that it's never as easy as that. So, if you read like some GitHub
read me's and the read me is two pages long and requires some Linux dependencies and
happens to works on my machine syndrome and as much as you can get away from that is best.
We do that. I do that. I tried to do that by just my particular solution where I'm good at
is just to build our packages around it. So, we have a range of our packages at the bank,
which are specifically for data access. So, we have X system and this system has a way of
interacting with that particular data. If it's a database or an API or something more bespoke,
just try and get it one line. I just want one command that I can run and it gets the user from
zero to connected. And as much of that as you can give to users, the better. Yeah. Never the easiest
thing, but as much as you can do, you'll reap the benefits. Thank you. I see a big discussion
happening in the chat under one of Mike's questions. So, I'm going to come back to that,
but there was a Slido question that someone asked anonymously and it was, how does the bank manage
reproducibility of analysis? I guess this kind of touches on what you were just talking about,
but especially with the thousand users with varying levels of proficiency.
Yeah, totally. So, I think it's again, some training goes into this. I really think that
Posit's tool set actually do this incredibly well. So, the reason that R Markdown doesn't
really have... You can't just reproduce tiny bits of R Markdown. It's really meant to be start to
finish, which basically means... This is something I didn't realize until after many years of using
it. It's reproducible by default and you actually have to opt into the non-reproducible bits.
And the same thing with Posit Connect and some others, that element is really good.
But otherwise, it's just the usual sorts of things that people on this call will know about,
which is try and make examples reproducible, for example, in the reprex package, a lot about
culture and just running things. But also works in combination with what I just said, which is
it's easier if they have easy data connections, right? So, if you're able to give some people a
data connection package, then they can do it start to finish. And I think a lot of users
are actually quite good at... A lot of users in my experience are quite good at spotting,
oh, now I can run this M2M because I've got this data connection. I'm not working with extracts.
And I think that, yeah, tooling is a big part of that.
Thank you. Mike, for the question and discussion that's happening in the chat,
do you mind jumping in to kind of summarize the point for me? I was trying to multitask
and figure out what it was and it was too hard. Yeah, that's kind of exploded. Sorry about that.
So, this is coming back to James's point that when you develop stuff, you definitely don't want to
own that solution forever or maintain it because then that... It's like if you develop an R package
and you put it on to CRAN, you are forever the person who's going to have to live with
updating that forever. Similarly, within the business I'm in, we have a kind of policy that
I think is similar to what James was saying, where if we're developing something, it's worth
the time to develop it in a way that the people we hand it off to can maintain it themselves.
Maybe not necessarily expand on it greatly, but if there are bits they tweak, they know where to
tweak and they can get in there and add a new variable or change something from A to B quite
readily. I'm trying to get away from sometimes what I see, which is if someone comes to you with
a problem, you solve that problem and you get it out the door as fast as possible and it is what
it is, you just deliver it and say, well, I'm done here. Typically, if you rush at it, then it's
harder for you and for anyone else to maintain in the long term. So, if you take a little bit longer
and give them the right solution that's easy for everyone to maintain going forward, it relieves
the burden on everyone. I think that's what I'm trying to say. I can't help but 100% endorse all
of that. I only have an example to add, which is I think these can be straightforward things
like function names. So, just take time to name your functions. It's weird because it feels like
make work, but it's not, actually. It's just naming functions and naming variables and stuff
is just a really important part of someone else understanding it in the future and then being able
to audit it or debug it in the future. But, yeah, 100% endorse.
And, sorry, to kind of expand on that, another example is in like markdown documents or reports
that you construct for someone, if you make them parameterized and what you do is that you feed in,
if you ingest like a YAML file or something that drives that parameterization,
then they can always expand it and add future parameters and do all kinds of clever things with
it. But it then means that you're not kind of locked into a given structure.
Yeah, 100%.
I think we stay here for a few more minutes on this topic, given all the comments there.
But, Donald, I see you kind of asked a question in that for like, I guess,
help in convincing others. Do you want to jump in here? Well, I can read it too. And feel free
to jump in after. But Donald had said in that thread, one of the biggest barriers I face in
building dashboards or packages is convincing people that the work is worth the maintenance
costs from either my team or theirs and would love additional discussions around this. Any
thoughts you have?
Yeah, so everything I've kind of said also applies to dashboards. So dashboard design
is just also a hugely underrated skill and takes time and experience to appreciate
like when a good dashboard is made well. I have the same quandary, which is I try
and say to managers or whomever I'm trying to convince is it's much more preferable to have a
smaller number of insights conveyed well and continuously than to have a great wedge of
insights to, you know, sort of haphazardly bandied together. The reason that's not always
easy is there's always somebody who wants their favorite chart. And that's where you kind of get
this dashboard fatigue phenomenon where everybody wants to put their own like bit on the Christmas
tree and eventually the Christmas tree doesn't look good or falls over. And that's a hard thing.
And I think just, yeah, manager gumption to say that actually, we don't do this. We aren't going
to support like every chart. We're not going to support like the broadest range of
possible visualizations for this thing. We want to focus on core insights and things that
the average person is trying to learn or the average person is going to want to know out of your
output, whether it's a dashboard or whether that's something else.
Thank you. A question I had for you is thinking about all the different teams that I've spoken
with, probably thousands of teams across six years. How, like what does your infrastructure
look like in terms of like testing and rolling out new products? I know like some teams might
have one server, some have 10 servers and they have their own production and staging environment.
I was just curious with supporting so many users, what that looks like for you?
Yeah. So this is a bit of a journey that the bank has been on. So as we sort of like grown in a user
base, we've started to see this a lot more that, you know, when we do roll out a new version of
R, I'm kind of now the person responsible for testing it, but I can't test the code of a
thousand users for a startup. Like not everybody is using version control, but you know, we are
getting there. But yeah, even if they were all using version control, we don't always have a good
catalog of that. And that's part of what I've tried to do is to try and get like a test bank.
So these are things which absolutely should work. So these are, you know, unit tests and
regression tests and integration tests. And yeah, philosophy is it's a good idea.
We try to get business, other areas of the bank to contribute their code. That's not always easy
because they're busy as well. And there's a couple of blockers to being able to do that.
But I will also say that it's again, something which just takes time and energy. So, you know,
I invest quite a lot of time in putting together our test suites now, and it's hard in the short
term, but pays a lot of dividends in the long term. The other thing which is a bit useful for that is,
so my area of focus is kind of on our data warehouse. So not everything in the bank is
based around its data warehouse. There are parts that are outside that, but the data warehouse is
a good, I want to say forum for that kind of testing, because it is, you know, where a lot
of things can end up or should end up. And so my sort of like, I'm also partly responsible for the
tooling on the data warehouse. So that's my way of bringing it together. It might be similar for
those on this call. But yeah, just as much as possible, try and get people on board to test it
themselves or ask them to contribute it or, you know, reach out and ask their permission to grab
it yourself. Yeah, certainly worthwhile doing. Thank you. Yeah, I guess I just think a lot about
the teams who maybe started out with just a few users and are starting to grow and need to expand
that infrastructure and how to like, know what to do there, what the next steps are.
I see like, lots of conversation here happening in the chat here. I'm trying to pull out the
questions. So feel free to just raise your hand here if you have something that wasn't really
answered yet. But there's a lot of discussion happening around like, dashboard design. I think
once we mentioned like, dashboard fatigue. And Eric, I see you had a shout out to one of the
conference workshops, if you want to jump in here. Yeah, that was, I was privileged to be a TA at
David Grandgen and Maya Ganz's workshop about effective design principles for Shiny dashboards
at PositConf. And I highly recommend checking that out as well as David's book on outstanding
Shiny user interfaces. And with the tooling that now is in Shiny itself, in particular with BSLib,
it's becoming a lot easier to incorporate some of these best practices of design without,
you know, being an official, you know, UX designer with, you know, years of training. It's something
that I think a lot of people will be able to pick up on and hopefully avoid some of the dashboard
fatigue that can occur. Yeah, I'll say something a bit about this. I am constantly struck by just
how similar, well, I mean, the name does it justice, right? This is design and design is hard,
right? So design is, you know, takes place in all facets of life, often underappreciated,
easy to ignore, even when it's done right, just like all designers. But I kind of feel the same
way about dashboards as I do about good writing. So, you know, good writing starts well, right?
You know, the first sentence should like engage the reader in the same way that like the first
thing that the dashboard shows you should be the most important thing or something,
not necessarily gripping, but, you know, something which you would hope would introduce the rest of
the concept to follow. Again, structure is important. I mean, we're very good as humans.
Well, I guess because our education has focused us on how to structure text very well, because,
you know, we get lots of training on this insofar as we have, you know,
structure, headings, citations, and things like that. And we don't really get it for dashboards, but
a lot of the same things apply, notably some exceptions too, but I see them as very similar,
especially asking yourself the question, oh, sorry, answering the question on behalf of the user,
you know, what are you trying to communicate to them? What question do they have that you
are trying to answer? And what goes along with that is you don't want to answer trivial questions,
you know, but you also don't want to, you know, answer, you don't want to lead with a question
which is impossibly difficult to understand. And all of that is design. And yeah, we should
have design focused teaching, which I'm sure that that workshop that you mentioned, Eric, was trying
to do. Absolutely. And Ted, I feel like there needs to be a shout out to your comment here in
the chat here as well, where Ted said a good dashboard is often the product of subtraction,
not addition too. And I see a lot of other thoughts here shared on design. Does anybody
else want to jump in? Yeah, I mostly use subtraction because I knew Libby was going
to take the bait. But I think there is something to be said about, you know, paring things down
and editing. And people don't really think about that. I'll give people a few more seconds. If
anybody has anything else they want to add on the design topic. But James, I think it'd also
be interesting to hear a little bit more about the organization and how you have like yourself
as the our business owner for the business representative, and then you have this tech
representative. And it just feels like that would be a helpful, I don't know, team to have in many
different companies. So I was wondering, like, how long has it been that way? Or did your team
kind of start that? Or did you have to advocate for that?
No, so this definitely predates me at the bank. So yes, more than a few years now.
And I think we're, yeah, just sort of grown out of an extending user base. It's maybe worth
mentioning that, you know, we have this for a couple of our tools now, and some of the tools
we grouped together. But Python certainly has its own business owner and technology owner.
And we have some other internal tools which do that as well. And arguably, we will have some more
when the community inside the bank grows to a large enough size. Yeah, I mean, I find it,
you know, a very healthy construct to have with so many users. And again, you know, I think if you
took any of those roles away, you would detract from the quality of service that the users are
able to enjoy. But I didn't have it at the previous place I worked. But yeah, if people,
I'm sure they have been shouting out in the chat. If not, then yeah, they can shout out now that
yeah, maybe other organizations have it if maybe not under the same names. I see there's a question
in the chat about adopting new tools. I don't know if somebody wants to shout that out.
Yeah, I think it was Marlene. Yeah, it's me again. I'm just curious.
So like, how amenable or agile is your team specifically about adopting languages, tech,
etc? Yeah, so I would say that there's a balance. And with important work, we will facilitate.
The one thing to bear in mind is the bank is quite sensitive about security. So we have policies on
what can be installed, which I think is fairly common at many organizations. And so yeah,
we try and balance the concerns of wanting to adopt new technologies and wanting to be secure,
but also not to adopt something too quickly. And part of the reason is that sometimes, you know,
you can get bitten on this. So somebody develops a business critical process in a language that's
not supported. And, you know, people will move on to other roles, and perhaps leave the bank. And,
you know, there's a maintenance burden, which goes along with that, which we have to be mindful of.
And yeah, those are the competing concerns. And so I think I'm on board with the idea that we have to
balance things. So there are some, there is a bit of work happening with Julia right now.
But yeah, we haven't sort of promoted it to fully fledged support yet. And then we might not.
Yeah. Libby, I think you have asked a question that was kind of in line with what I was
trying to ask earlier. And I didn't ask it as great as you did. So I'd love to have you
jump in here, shoot with your question around the R Excellence Hub.
Yeah, so and I did get an answer, which was great. I've only ever lived the experience of
you can't use these packages, you can use these packages. And the packages I want to use never
being on the list of packages that I can use, right. So I was always sitting around wondering,
is there a land out there where there's like a dev environment where I can just use whatever
package I want and create a case for, hey, I think we should use this package is hey,
I think we should put this through some testing to make sure that it's safe. And then, you know,
put it on the list. And it looks like I had one answer saying yes, I'm curious if anybody else
has and James, if you have any feedback or experience with it.
I do simply what I've said before, we try and, you know, balance these concerns as much as we can.
It's such a selfish question. As a data end user, I see lots of people like nodding,
but I also know that on the regulatory end of it, it's important to not just let people use
any package they want in any version they want. And it's yeah, Mike's like no. So I get it.
But that's a tough question, right? How to balance that?
I see. Mayank, you had shared some thoughts there. Do you want to do you want to jump in?
Thank you. And thank you for a great session. And James. So we kind of had multiple production
servers based on geography. So we used to work on reinsurance, organization, and due to data
privacy issues in each geography in Europe or Asia. So there would be eight or nine different
production servers, but they would be only one dev environment. And nobody would really look at
nobody would, you know, really look at the environment. There would be oftentimes like
a data scientist like me or myself would want to use something out of it. So we would ask them to
go to play as much as they would want to. And then once we get the signup, we'll implement those.
Also, whenever Posit would come up with new updates to their products in terms of
first install on that, you would have a series of script to do the testing of
no code based departments are working or am I able to use G plot and basic stuff.
Once we get a report out of that, you know, we will then move everything to prod all the updates
and we will do the same regression testing again on that so that we are kind of shielded from
immediate updates. As an organization, we're able to give users the latest and the best. So
that's how we use their phone. Yeah. I love that. Thank you so much for sharing.
Before jumping to another question, James, just want to make sure. Did you have anything else you
wanted to add there? No. As we get to the close to the top of the hour, just a reminder, anything
in the chat. I'm so sorry. Feel free to just raise your hand to ask a question here too, or just
copy it over and ask it again if that's okay. Let me go double check over to Slido as well.
But one of the like people oriented questions I love to ask James is about career advice that
you've either been given or have given. And so like thinking back, is there a piece of
career advice that really like stands out to you? So I would love to hear it.
Oh, that's a good question. I think the thing that I...
It's going to sound very obvious, but it's just to really get enjoyment out of what you do,
just to... I think that that probably speaks to a lot of people on the call,
given your attendance here today. But just being interested in the subject matter that your work
is involved in is just huge for your motivation and your ability to continue with it. So that's
really excellent. But I think it's not good career advice perhaps, but it's always just
to keep perspective about what your career is and what your job is and that you should never be
sort of hamstrung or bound to a particular career or company or anything like that.
It's just to assess as rationally as you can the situation you're in and where you want to be
and to cash out, to take time for yourself and to make sure you have that balance of
the considerations that you care about, which is not very exciting, not very novel advice.
But I think, again, it's going to be super obvious to the people on this call, but
if you do get a chance, I do think programming is transformative. So I mean, we on this call
are probably long past the stage where we are surprised at the power of programming. But
if you think back to your past selves, certainly back to my past self, which is just the ability
to use code to interact with the various parts of your life or your work was definitely a
changing point for me. And so I don't mind advising people to take up code because I know
what code and software has done for me and it happens to be a reasonably good career prospect
at the same time. And so what a fantastic thing for us to be able to engage in something which is
both hugely interesting, hugely rewarding, and has good career prospects along the way.
So not advice to anybody watching this, maybe even to people watching the stream, but
if you are asked about advice, I think just learning to code is such a phenomenal,
life-changing experience that it's worth emphasizing.
Thank you for that. Is there a specific story that you'll share with people who you're
talking to who are interested in learning, like to show them that impact?
Yeah, for sure. Well, I'll tell you a bit about my experience of learning. So I grew up in South
Africa and one of the things that happens in South Africa, it's changed a lot now,
but internet use as a South African is far removed from what you might encounter in the West. So,
especially with the availability of internet data. And so what you'll get is it's changed quite a
lot now, but South Africans used to like turn off the data on their phone because they were afraid
of being charged on their mobile plan because the internet was very expensive. And so,
it used to be very expensive. And so what I would do is I would go to the university library and I
would find a way to download YouTube videos. So I listened to some talks on Python and, oh, this was
important for my studying, but I downloaded them because I knew it would be too expensive to watch
them all in my flat at home, even though by South African standards, very well, but it wasn't worth
it from that perspective. And so these demonstrations, which were video recorded,
were just like gold dust to me. They were like something which I, as somebody who lived many,
many thousands of, well, thousands of kilometers away, could experience this world. And I got
insight into this world and live demonstrations. And I'm very, very grateful for that. It changed
my life. And yeah, that's the story that I'll tell, having to download those YouTube videos.
Of course, you watch them on repeat because you can never download enough. So I ended up watching
them quite a lot. Now, of course, I have a much better experience of watching YouTube. But I would
also say that that kind of reinforces the notion of video. So I know that some conferences and
some speakers on Stanley don't want to be video, but it is so, so appreciated by people who cannot
be in the room with you. And there are kids in other parts of the world who will watch that.
Who will go out of their way to watch that. And you're always speaking to them.
Absolutely. I love that. Thank you so much for sharing that, James.
My pleasure. Thank you for having me.
I know we have two minutes left here. And I realized, Eric, I had missed one of your
questions from earlier. If you want to jump in here with one of the last questions.
Yeah. I mean, certainly, James, you don't have to answer all this fully in the time we have. But
just curious, from your standpoint of all the data you mentioned that you're dealing with at
the bank, are there uses of R with other novel technologies that are enabling a lot more speed
or performance for your data science teams as you're crunching through this vast amount of data?
So, yeah, in the middle section, there's definitely Data Table. So Data Table is great.
Data Table, slightly underrated R technology. But when you have something which
a lot of people try to take out of the database and want to work on really big data,
they need the performance. Also, lots of people like Data Table for its syntax. So that's great.
A lot of things. So I guess we are now just starting on this journey like anybody of LLMs.
And so we have a hackathon quite soon just to see that we're not using it in earnest yet.
There's just a couple of things that are being planned, and we'll see what comes out of that.
Of course, we do do text mining. So text mining, the bank has a network of agents across the
country. And those agents report to us on, they do interviews, and they report to us on the state of
different industries and businesses. And so text mining is very, very fruitful. We'll be able to
extract insights from that. So yeah, like I said before, it's hugely varied. So the bank is very
data set hungry. And those are just some of the ways that we utilize R in particular.
Awesome. Thank you.
Thank you so much, James, for joining us today and sharing your perspective.
It's a reminder to me to also say thank you to everybody who ends up watching these hangouts
on YouTube in the future as well. I just want to say like, you all are part of this community as
well. Even if you're not here with us in the room, maybe you're watching on YouTube and commenting
and sharing with others as well. But a special thank you as well to everybody here for all the
great questions today. I had so much fun getting to meet so many of you at the conference and also
just wanted to say like, amazing job on all the conference talks. It was so fun just like
running around to try and like catch as many of the data science hangout folks talks,
or whether you were watching those virtually or there in person in Chicago. So thanks everybody
for making this community what it is and hope you all have a great rest of the day.
Thank you.
Bye, everybody.
Goodbye.